# Overview of Election Audit
## The purpose of this election audit is to analyze a large set of data and aggregate meaningful details about trends within the data, using two main criteria: the voting district the ballot was cast in, and the candidate chosen for the election. Election audits are important because historically there have been several instances where recounts produced a meaningful change in the course of an election, such as the 2000 Bush-Gore election where several recount audits took place that overturned some preliminary judgements.

# Election-Audit Results
## * A total of 369,711 ballots were cast across three counties in Colorado: Jefferson, Denver, and Arapahoe. The votes were split between 3 potential candidates: Charles Casper Stockham, Diana DeGette, and Raymon Anthony Doane.
## * The majority of the ballots were cast in Denver County, with 82.8% of the total amount of votes present in the audit, with a total of 306,055 votes. Jefferson County provided the second largest turnout, with 10.5% (38,855 ballots), while Arapahoe provided only 6.7% of the total ballots (24,801 ballots)
## * Denver County had the largest amount of votes by a landslide, with about 10 times the amount of ballots as Jefferson, the second highest county in this particular audit
## * The breakdown of the votes for the candidates followed a similar trend to the county votes, where Diana DeGette received a majority of the votes with 73.8% of the total votes (272,892 votes). Charles Casper Stockham received 23.0% of the total vote (85,213 votes), while Raymon Anthony Doane received 3.1% of the total turnout (11,606 votes)
## * Diane DeGette was the ultimate winner of the election with 272,892 total votes, which made up 73.8% of the total ballots cast

# Election-Audit-Summary
## The script used to process this audit can be modified and have more uses for tracking certain details about the election cycle moving forward. If more spesific information can be gathered that might be of interest, such as the demographics of the voters (income, race, sex, location, political affilication), we can add in another string to track that spesific detail. For example, to track the candidate name, we set the variable candidat_name = row[2], so that when the csv was opened, all the values in the 3rd column would be read in as a group of variables. And by using the function candidate_options.append(candidate_name), we can track and add new names as they are discovered down the line during the scripting process. This same principle can be applied to track the demographic factors that were listed earlier if the required data was provided as an input
 ## Another modification that could be made to the script to increase its versatility would be to change the criteria for winning an election. For example, the President of the United States is not determined by popular vote, but by the electoral college. If we put a list of US states/territories and their delegates as an import we could sort through and attribute various winners by state, and then set the win condition to whichever candidate managed to secure 270 electoral votes would be the winner. The most basic way to do this would be to duplicate this existing script to include all counties for a specific state, and after all the meta-data is collected add in an additional conditional check to see which candidate managed to get 270 electoral votes
 
 

